Northrichmond street being blind was a quiet street except. At the hour when the christian brother s school set. The boys free an uninhabited house of two storeys stood at the blindend detached from its neighbours In a Square ground the other houses of the street conscious of decent lives within them gazed at one another with Brown imperturbable faces the former tenant ofour house a priest had died in the back drawing - room air Musty from having been long enclosed. Hung in all the rooms and the wasteroom behind the kitchen was littered with old useless papers among these I found a few paper-coveredbooks the pages of which were curled and damp the abbot by walter scott the devout communicant and the memoirs of vidocqi liked the last best because its leaves were yellow the wild garden behind the house contained a central apple - tree and a few straggling bushes under one of which I found the late. Tenants rusty bicycle-pump. He had been a very charitable priest ; in his will he had left all his money to institutions and the furniture of his house to his sister when the short days of winter came dusk fell before we had well eaten our dinners when we met in the street. The houses had grown sombre the space of sky above us was the colour of ever-changing. Violet and towards it the lamps of the street lifted their feeble lanterns. The cold air stungus and we played till our bodies glowed our shout sechoed in the silent. Street the career of our play brought us through the dark. Muddylanes behind the houses where weran the gauntlet of the rough. Tribes from the cottages to the back doors of the dark. Dripping gardens Whereodours arose from the ash pits to the darkodorous stables where a coachman s moothed and combed the horse or shook music from the buckled harness when were turned to the street. Light from the kitchen window shad filled the areas if my uncle was seen turning the corner we hid in the shadow until we had seen him safely housed or if Mangan s sister came out on the doorstep to call her brother into his te awe watched her from our shadow peer up and down the street we waited to see whether she would remain or go in and if she remained We left our shadow and walked up tomangan s steps resignedly she was waiting for usher figure defined by the light from the half - opened door her brother always teased her before he obeyed and I stood by the railings looking at her. Herdress swung as she moved her body and the sof trope of her hair tossed from side to side every morning I lay on the floor in the front parlour watching her door the blind was pulled down to within an inch of the sash so that I could not be seen when she came out on the doorstep my heart leaped iran to the hallseized my books and followed her I kept her Brown figure always in my eye and when we came near the point at which our ways diverged I quickened my pace and passed her. This happened morning after morning I had never spoken to her except for a few casual words and yet her name was like a summons to all my foolish blood her image accompanied me even in places. The most hostile to romance on Saturday evenings when my auntwent marketing I had to go to carry some of the parcels we walked through the flaring streets jost led by drunken men and bargaining wome N amid the curses of labourers the shrill litanies of shop - boy s who stood on. Guard by the barrels of pigs cheeks then as al chanting of street - singers who sang a come -all- you abouto do. Novan rossa or a ballad about the troubles in our native land these noises converged in a single sensation of life. For me I imagined that I bore my ch alice safely through a throng offoes her name sprang to. My lips at Moments in strange prayers and praises which I myself did not understand my eyes were often full of tears ( I could not tell. Why ) and at times aflood from my heart seemed to pour itself out into my bosomi thought little of the future. I did not know whether I would ever speak to her or notor if I spoke to her How I could tell her of my confused adoration But my body was like a harp and her words and gestures were like Fingers running upon the wires one evening I went into the back drawing - room in which the priest had died it was a dark rain y evening and there was no sound in the house through one of the broken panes I heard the rain impinge upon the earth the fine incessant needles of water playing in the sodden beds some distant lamp or lighted window gleamed below me I was thankful that I could see so little all my senses seemed to desire to veil themselves and feeling that I was about to slip from them I pressed the palms of my hands together until they trembled murmuring o love o love many times at last She spoke to me when she addressed the first words to me I was so confused that I did not know what to answer. She asked me was I going to Araby I forgot whether I answered Yes or no it would be a splendid bazaar ; she said she would love to go and why can t you I asked while she spoke she turned a silver bracelet round and round her wrist she could not go she said because there would beare treat that week in her conven t her brother and two other boys were fighting for their caps and I was alone at the railings she held one of the spikes bowing her head towards me the light from the lampopposite our door caught the white curve of her neck lit up her hair that rested there and falling lit up the hand upon the railing. It fell over one side of her dress and caught the white border of a petticoat just visible as she stood at ease it s well for you she said I f I go I said I will bring you something what innumerable follieslaid was te. My waking and sleeping thought s after that evening I wished to annihilate the tedious intervening days. Ich a fed against the work of school at night in my bedroom and by day in the classroom her image came between me and the page istrove to read the Syllables of the word a r aby were called to me through the silence in which my soul luxuriated and castan eastern enchantment over me. I asked for leave to go to the bazaaron Saturday night my aunt was surprised. And hoped it was not some freemason affairianswered few questions in class I watched my master s face pass from amiability to sternness ; he hoped I was not beginning to. Idlei could not call my wandering thoughts together. I had hardly any patience with the serious work of life which now that it stood between me. And my desire seemed to me child s play ugly monotonous child s play on Saturday morning I reminded my uncle that I wished to go to the bazaar. In the evening he was fussing at the hall. stand looking for the hat- brush and answered me Curtly Yes boy I know as he was in the hall I could not go into the front parlour and Lie at the windowi left the house in bad humour and walked slowly towards the school the air was pitilessly ra W and already my heart misgave me When I came home to dinner my uncle had not yet been home still it was Early I s at Staring at the clock for some time and when it sticking began to irritate me I left the room I mounted the staircase and gained the upper part of the house. The high cold empty gloomy rooms liberated me and I went from room to roomsinging from the front windowi s aw my companions Playing below in the street. Their cries reached me weakened And indistinct and leaning my forehead against the cool glass I looked over at the dark house where she lived I may have stood there for an hour seeing nothing but the brown -clad figure cast by my imagination touched discreetly by the lamplight at the curvedneck at the hand upon the railing s. And at the Border below the dress when I came downstairs again. I found Mrs. Mercersitting at the fire she was an old garrulous woman a pawnbrokers widow who collected used stamps for some pious purpose I had to endure the gossip of the tea - table the meal was prolonged beyond an hour and still my uncle did not come. Mrs. Mercers tood up to goshe was sorry she couldn t wait any longer but it was after eight o clock and she did not like to be out late as the night air was bad for her when she had gone I began to walk up and down the room clenching my fists my aunt said I m afraid you may put off your bazaar for this night of our lord at nine o clock I heard my uncles latchkey in the hall door I heard him talking to himself and heard the hall. Stand rocking when it had received the weight of his overcoat I could interpret these signs when he was midway through his dinner I asked him. To give me the money to go to the bazaar he had forgotten the people are in bed and after their first sleep now he said I did not smile my aunt said to him Energetically can t you give him the money and let him go you ve kept him La Te enough as it is my uncle said he was very sorry. He had forgotten he said he believed in the old say ing all work. And no play makes jackadull boy he asked me where I was going and when I told him a second time he asked medid. I know the arab s farewell to his steed. When I left the kitchen. He was about to recite the opening lines of the piece to my aunt. I held a flor in tightly in my hand as Istrode down buckingham street towards the station the sight of the streets thronged with buyers and glaring with gas recalled to me the purpose of my journey. I took my seat in a third-classcarriage of a deserted train. After an intolerable delay the train moved out of the stations lowly It crept onward amongruinous houses and over the twinkling river a t West land row station acrowd of people pressed to the carriage doors ; but the porters moved them back saying that it was a special train for the bazaar I remained alone in the bare carriage. In a few minutes the train drew up beside an improvised wooden Platform I passed out onto the road and saw by the lighted dial of a clock that it was ten minutes to te N in front of me was a large building which displayed the magical name. I could not find any sixpenny entrance and fearing that the bazaar would be closed. I passed in quickly through a turnstile handing as hilling to a weary - looking manifound myself in a big h all girded at half it s height by agallery nearly all the stalls were closed and the greater part of the hall was in darkness. I recognized asilence like that which pervades a church after a service. I walked into the centre of the bazaartimidly a few people were gathered about the stalls which were still open before. A curtain over which the words caf Chantant were written in coloured lamp s t wo men were counting money on a salver I listened to the fall of the coins remembering with difficulty why I had come I went over to one of the stalls and examined porcelain vases and flowered tea-sets at the door of the stall a young lady was talking and laughing with two young gentlemen I remarked their English accents and listened vaguely to their conversation o. I never said such a thing O But you dido but I didn t didn ts he say that Yes I heard her o theresa fi bobserving me the young lady came over and asked medid I wish to buy anything the tone of her voice was not encouraging ; she seemed to have spoken to me out of a sense of duty. I looked humbly at the great jars that stood like. Eastern guards at either side of the darkentrance to the stall and murmured no. Thank you the young lady changed the position of one of the vases and went back to the two young men they began to talk of the same subject once or twice the young lady glanced at me over her shoulderilingered before her stall though I knew my stay was useless to make my interest in herwares seem the more real then I turned aways lowly and walked down the middle of the bazaariallowed the twopenniest of all against the sixpence in my pocket I heard a voice call from one end of the gallery that the light was out the upper part of the hall was now completely dark gazing up into the darkness isaw myself asa Creatured riven and derided by vanity ; and my eyes 